---
title: "Label-free visualization and morphological profiling of neuronal differentiation and axonal degeneration through quantitative phase imaging"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-03-28-AdvBiol
excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work.'
authorlist: 'Jeong Hee Kim, Aysel Cetinkaya-Fisgin, Noah Zahn, Mehmet Can Sari, Ahmet Hoke, Ishan Barman'
date: 2024-03-28
venue: 'Advanced Biology'
slidesurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.1002/adbi.202400020'
citation: 'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---

Abstract
------
Understanding the intricate processes of neuronal growth, degeneration, and neurotoxicity is paramount for unraveling nervous system function and holds significant promise in improving patient outcomes, especially in the context of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy (CIPN). These processes are influenced by a broad range of entwined events facilitated by chemical, electrical, and mechanical signals. The progress of each process is inherently linked to phenotypic changes in cells. Currently, the primary means of demonstrating morphological changes rely on measurements of neurite outgrowth and axon length. However, conventional techniques for monitoring these processes often require extensive preparation to enable manual or semi-automated measurements. Here, a label-free and non-invasive approach is employed for monitoring neuronal differentiation and degeneration using quantitative phase imaging (QPI). Operating on unlabeled specimens and offering little to no phototoxicity and photobleaching, QPI delivers quantitative maps of optical path length delays that provide an objective measure of cellular morphology and dynamics. This approach enables the visualization and quantification of axon length and other physical properties of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neuronal cells, allowing greater understanding of neuronal responses to stimuli simulating CIPN conditions. This research paves new avenues for the development of more effective strategies in the clinical management of neurotoxicity.
